---
title: Getting started
---

Start testing your LLM integration with Poyro in under 15 minutes. {% .lead %}

{% quick-links %}

{% quick-link title="Quick start" icon="installation" href="#quick-start" description="Get started quickly with Poyro and begin testing your LLM integration ASAP." /%}

{% quick-link title="Manual installation" icon="theming" href="/manual-installation" description="Step-by-step guides to setting up your system and installing the library." /%}

{% quick-link title="How does it work?" icon="presets" href="/how-does-it-work" description="Learn how the internals work." /%}

<!-- {% quick-link title="API reference" icon="plugins" href="/" description="Use advanced utilities to test your app the right way." /%} -->

{% /quick-links %}

{% callout type="warning" title="Beta disclaimer" %}
Currently, the library is in beta and only supports integration with Vitest. We are working on adding support for other testing frameworks.
{% /callout %}

---

## Quick start

The fastest way to get started is to use the Poyro CLI to install the library and configure it for your project.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20 or later
- Vitest 1.6.0 or later ([Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) is a modern testing framework with Jest-like syntax)
- Your project must have "type": "module" in its package.json (this library is ESM only)
- Recommended: CUDA-compatible GPU (Nvidia) or Metal-compatible GPU (Apple Silicon) for best performance, but not required

### Installation

To get started quickly, simply run:

```bash
npx poyro init
```

If everything goes well, you should see a message that roughly looks like this:

```bash
poyro | Welcome to Poyro! ðŸ•µï¸
? vitest is not installed. Would you like to also install it? yes
poyro | Installing vitest and @poyro/vitest...

added 2 packages, removed 2 packages, changed 2 packages, and audited 611 packages in 9s

203 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

found 0 vulnerabilities
poyro | No 'vitest.setup.js/ts' file found. Creating vitest.setup.js...
poyro | vitest.setup.js created successfully.
poyro | No 'vitest.config.js/ts' file found. Creating vitest.config.js...
poyro | vitest.config.js created successfully.
poyro | vitest.d.ts created successfully.
poyro | tsconfig.json updated successfully to reference vitest.d.ts types.
```

That's it! You're now ready to start testing your LLM integration with Poyro.

{% callout type="note" title="Manual installation" %}
You also have the choice to install and configure Poyro manually- to do so, please use the [manual installation guide](/manual-installation) for details on how to get started.
{% /callout %}

---

## Basic usage

To use the matchers, simply use them as you would any other matcher in Vitest! For example:

```typescript
it("should be true", async () => {
  // This is some output generated by an LLM, the way you get it
  // is totally up to you
  const llmOutput = "Hello, world!";

  await expect(llmOutput).toFulfillCriterion("Says hello");
}, 10000); // Increase the timeout as needed with the third argument
```

Behind the scenes, the `toFulfillCriterion` matcher will evaluate the output against the criterion and provide feedback based on the result using a local LLM supplied by `@poyro/vitest`.

{% callout type="note" title="Important note" %}
Depending on the complexity of the criterion as well as the output, the matching process may exceed the Vitest default timeout of 5s. If the tests timeout before the matcher can complete, you can increase the timeout in the third argument of the `it`/`test` function or inside `vitest.config.js`.
{% /callout %}

---

## Troubleshooting

### Napi::Error

There can be many reasons for this error, below are a few common reasons why it may happen.

#### Test timeout exceeded

One common cause is that your timeout is too low. Try increasing the timeout in the third argument of the `it`/`test` function or inside `vitest.config.js`. Additionally, ensure that you `await` the matcher call, as it is asynchronous.

#### Out of memory

If you're running on a machine with limited memory, you may run out of memory during the test. Try closing other memory-intensive processes or running the test on a machine with more memory.

Additionally, you may also receive this error if you attempt to parallelize test with a `Promise.all` or similar construct. Each of these tests will spawn a new instance of the LLM, which can quickly consume memory. In such instances, it is recommended to run the tests serially.

---

## Getting help

If you spot a bug, have a feature request, or need help, don't hesitate to reach out to us via GitHub or Discord!

### Submit an issue

You can submit an issue by going to our GitHub repository and [creating a new issue](https://github.com/poyro/poyro/issues/new). Prior to submitting an issue, please check if a similar issue has already been submitted.

### Join the community

If you want to get help or if you just want to chat with other Poyro developers, join our community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/xcQWXeyk)!
